Cannabis is derived from the cannabis plant(cannabis sativa). Cannabis grows wild in many of the tropical and temperate areas of the world. 
It can be grown in almost any climate, and is increasingly cultivated by means of indoor hydroponic technology.

The main active ingredient in cannabis is called delta-9 tetrahydro-cannabinol, commonly known as THC. This is the part of the plant that gives the "high." 
There is a wide range of THC potency between cannabis products.

Cannabis is used in three main forms 1) marijuana, 2) hashish and 3)hash oil. Marijuana is made from dried flowers and leaves of the cannabis plant. 
It is the least potent of all the cannabis products and is usually smoked or made into edible products like cookies or brownies. 
Hashish is made from the resin (a secreted gum) of the cannabis plant. It is dried and pressed into small blocks. 
It can also be added to food and eaten. Hash oil, the most potent cannabis product, is a thick oil obtained from hashish.

Usually Cannabis is smoked in hand-rolled cigarettes known as "joints" or in special waterpipes ("bongs"). These pipes or bongs can be bought or made 
from things such as orange juice containers, soft drink cans or even toilet rolls.


Other Names for Cannabis include as marijuana, grass, pot, dope, Mary Jane, hooch, weed, hash, joints, brew, reefers, cones, smoke, mull, buddha, 
ganga, hydro, yarndi, heads and green.

Most people use cannabis to experience a sense of mild euphoria and relaxation, often referred to as a "high." Cannabis causes changes in the 
user's mood and also affects how they think and perceive the environment, e.g. everyday activities such as watching the television and listening 
to music can become altered and more intense.




It's very important to talk to teens about drugs because they may hear wrong information about drugs from their friends, the media or other adults
they (or you) may be concerned about someone else who is using drugs or they may be using drugs and might need help to stop or they may be asking questions 
and it's important that you provide them with the right information.



THC is cannabinoid is delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol. THC is responsible for the way your brain and body respond to cannabis, including the high and intoxication. THC has some therapeutic effects but it also has harmful effects. Harmful effects may be greater when the strength of THC is higher.
The potency (concentration or strength) of THC in cannabis is often shown as a percentage of THC by weight (or by volume of an oil). THC potency in dried cannabis has increased from an average of 3% in the 1980s to around 15% today. Some strains can have an average as high as 30% THC.
Cannabis that contains very low amounts of THC in its flowers and leaves (less than 0.3%) is classified as hemp.


CBD (Cannabidiol) is another cannabinoid. Unlike THC, CBD does not produce a high or intoxication. There is some evidence that CBD may block or lower some of the effects of THC on the mind. This may occur when the amount of CBD in the cannabis is the same or higher than the amount of THC. CBD is also being studied for its possible therapeutic uses.

THC is different from CBD.Unlike THC, CBD does not produce a high or intoxication. There is some evidence that CBD may block or lower some of the effects of THC on the mind. This may occur when the amount of CBD in the cannabis is the same or higher than the amount of THC. CBD is also being studied for its possible therapeutic uses.

side-effects of the flowers and leaves of the cannabis plant may cause effects on the mind. 

short term effects of cannabis include Impairment to your ability to drive safely or operate equipment,Make it harder to learn and remember things, Affect mood and feelings and Affect mental health.Cannabis can slow reaction times, lower your ability to pay attention, and harm coordination.Using cannabis and driving can result in a car accident, serious injuries or death.
Make it harder to learn and remember things:After using cannabis, you may have problems paying attention, remembering or learning things, and making decisions.  Using cannabis can reduce your ability to perform well on the job or at school.
Affect mood and feelings: Cannabis use can cause anxiety or panic.
Affect mental health: Cannabis can trigger a psychotic episode (not knowing what is real, experiencing paranoia, having disorganized thoughts, and in some cases having hallucinations).

long-term effects of cannabis use can damage the lungs and make it harder to breathe,Affect mental health and Make you physically dependent or addicted.Cannabis smoke contains many of the same harmful substances as tobacco smoke. Like smoking cigarettes, smoking cannabis can damage your lungs.
Affect mental health by Using cannabis regularly and continuously over time makes you more likely to experience anxiety, depression, psychosis, and schizophrenia.
Higher-strength cannabis products (such as concentrates like “shatter”, wax, dabs) can worsen the mental health effects of cannabis use. Stopping or reducing cannabis use can improve outcomes.
Make you physically dependent or addicted, It is estimated that 1 out of 11 (or 9%) of those who use cannabis in their lifetime will become addicted to cannabis.This rate increases to 16% for those who start using cannabis during adolescence and up to 1 out of 2 people who smoke cannabis daily.

Any kind of smoke is harmful. In fact, studies have shown that cannabis smoke contains many of the same harmful substances as tobacco smoke. Like smoking cigarettes, smoking cannabis can damage your lungs and can cause bronchitis-like symptoms, coughing and wheezing which can, for example, affect athletic performance. 
While the effects of second hand smoke from tobacco are well known, more research is needed to better understand the health effects of second hand smoke from cannabis.

The known benefits of smoking cannabis includes some evidence of potential therapeutic uses for cannabis or its component chemicals (cannabinoids) and many Canadians report using cannabis for medical purposes for health problems such as chronic pain, nausea/vomiting associated with cancer chemotherapy, and spasticity with multiple sclerosis. 
While cannabis can be used by some people for their health problems, determining whether cannabis is appropriate to treat an individual’s symptoms is best made through a discussion with a health care practitioner.


Cannabis affect young people's health if cannabis use that begins early in adolescence, that is frequent and that continues over time is more likely to bring about harms. Some of those harms may never fully go away.

Youth are especially vulnerable to the effects of cannabis, as research shows the brain is not fully developed until around age 25. This is because THC, the substance which gives the “high” in cannabis, affects the same machinery in the brain that directs brain development. The higher the amount of THC in cannabis, the more likely one is to be harmed by it.

Cannabis use can impact your mental health as it increases the risk of developing mental illnesses such as psychosis or schizophrenia, especially those who start using cannabis at a young age , use cannabis frequently and/or have a personal or family history of psychosis and/or schizophrenia.

Frequent use of cannabis has also been associated with an increased risk of suicide,depression, anxiety disorders.

Cannabis can cause or trigger schizophrenia in some people as it increases the risk of developing mental illnesses such as schizophrenia. This is particularly true for those who start using cannabis at a young age or use cannabis frequently (daily or almost every day) or have a personal or family history of schizophrenia


Cannabis use during pregnancy can lead to lower birth weight of the baby. It has also been associated with longer-term developmental effects in children and adolescents, such as:
decreases in memory function, ability to pay attention, reasoning and problem-solving skills, hyperactive behaviour, increased risk for future substance use


Just like with tobacco and alcohol, a during pregnancy a woman or a new mother's smokes pot and then breastfeed it can affect her fetus or newborn child. The substances in cannabis are carried through the mother's blood to her fetus during pregnancy. Also, they are passed into the breast milk following birth. This can lead to health problems for the child. Since there is no known safe amount of cannabis to use during pregnancy or breastfeeding, the safest approach is to not use cannabis. If you need more information or support, it is recommended that you talk to your healthcare provider.

One can become addicted to Cannabis through a frequent cannabis use that starts in adolescence, increases the chance of addiction.
Close to 1 in 10 adults who have ever used cannabis will develop an addiction to it. This statistic rises to about 1 in 6 for people who started using cannabis as a teenager.
Between 1 in 4 and 1 in 2 of those who smoke cannabis daily will develop an addiction to it.

Help is available, whether you need it for yourself, a friend or a family member. Please visit: https://www.canada.ca/en/health-canada/services/substance-use/get-help/get-help-with-drug-abuse.html#a1


You can help a friend who is addicted to cannabis or may be abusing drugs by visiting: https://www.canada.ca/en/health-canada/services/substance-use/get-help/help-friend.html


Cannabis can impair driving which can result in injury or death. The risk of having a car accident is even greater when alcohol is added to the mix.
Using cannabis with other drugs such as certain pain medications or sleeping pills further lowers your ability to concentrate and react quickly to emergencies.Don’t drive high.

How long the impairing effects of cannabis last depends on how it was consumed (smoked, inhaled, ingested) and how much was taken, but effects can last at least six (6) hours or longer after use.

What are the dangers of driving high?
Drugs can impair your ability to drive safely and increase the risk of getting into a collision. In fact, cannabis increases your chance of a car accident Footnote 1. The percentage of Canadian drivers killed in vehicle crashes who test positive for drugs (40%) now actually exceeds the numbers who test positive for alcohol (33%) Footnote 2.
Impaired driving is the leading criminal cause of death and injury in Canada, and drug-impaired driving is increasing.

It is not ok to drive high.Getting behind the wheel while impaired by drugs is not only dangerous, it’s against the law. Trained police officers or Drug Recognition Experts can determine if you are under the influence of a drug and can charge you with impaired driving. You can have your license suspended, face fines, criminal charges, and even jail time.


Government is serious about preventing impaired driving or driving high.Police are already able to test for drug-impaired driving using Standard Field Sobriety Tests (SFST) and through the use of Drug Recognition Experts (DRE). On June 21, 2018, new legislation designed to strengthen impaired driving laws came into force. These new laws make it easier for police officers to detect drug-impaired driving. For example, law enforcement will be able to use an oral fluid drug screening device (once approved by the Attorney General of Canada) to test drivers for drug impairment.
The Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) has developed the "Introduction to Drug Impaired Driving" course enhancing the current SFST curriculum to train officers on the signs and symptoms of drug impairment. There are over 13,000 trained SFST officers across Canada (April 2018) and 833 certified DREs (October 2018). It is expected that Canada will train more than 7,000 new SFST officers over the next three years. The RCMP and its provincial partners also have a goal of training approximately 500 additional DRE-certified police officers over the next five years.

Police are trained to protect our roards and us and by detecting if you are driving under the influence of a drug and enforce drug-impaired driving laws using:
Standard Field Sobriety Testing (SFST) and Drug Recognition Expert (DRE)
In addition to these tests, the new legislation permits law enforcement to use approved drug screening devices to detect the recent presence of several drugs, including any or all of THC from cannabis, cocaine and methamphetamine. Following a legal roadside stop, police can demand an oral fluid sample and/or conduct an SFST if they suspect you are driving under the influence of a drug.


Fines are high if you are charged and they may include having your license suspended, fines, criminal charges or even jail time if you are convicted of driving under the influence of cannabis or other drugs. There are over 13,000 trained SFST officers across Canada (April 2018) and 833 certified DREs (October 2018). This number will continue to increase as the federal, provincial and territorial governments invest in additional training.


It's illegal to take cannabis across the Canadian border, whether you're coming into Canada, or leaving. This applies to all countries, whether cannabis is legal there or not.


You are able to grow marijuana plants but limited upto four plants per residence (not per person).


The governments of Manitoba and Quebec have pre-emptively banned growing at home, but elsewhere across the country, households will soon be allowed to grow up to four cannabis plants at a time — a limit chosen by the federal government to minimize the health and safety risks of cultivation.
However, some in the real estate and insurance industries warn that growing even a few plants inside isn't safe. They say grow lights pose a fire hazard and the high humidity required for successful cultivation encourages mould.
